this is the bucket of roses I've just
picked this afternoon
now I remember when I was a kid my
parents telling me about when they were
kids June the war and they were given
rosehip syrup
now the reason kids during the war were
given the syrup was because it was high
in vitamin C but Britain wasn't
importing any fresh fruit so no oranges
no lemons and so on so we needed an
alternative source of vitamin C now
these rose hips here have per weight
more vitamin C than oranges and lemons
so we have right here on our doorsteps
an excellent source of vitamin C during
Moyers there was a scheme run by the
government under which volunteers to go
out picked the rose hips and they were
paid a penny a pound for them they all
went into factories to make this meant
to make roses syrup high in vitamin C
which then went to be fed to the kids
scheme that ended in 1950 and I'm not
suggesting that we bring those back
asleep like that but what I am wanting
to do is to encourage people to look at
rose hips as an alternative to oranges
for vitamin C what we're going to do now
is actually make some rose hip syrup
using a what an old wartime recipe you
need two kilos of rose hips chop them in
half put them in a jam pan and add three
liters of water and bring it to the boil
once the palm is heating up what I
thought I'd do is show you the inside of
rose hip now as you can see the flesh is
on the outside and right in the core as
well and it's surrounded by a large
number of C's now that the birds love
the seeds and they will be you often
find when you're out picking rose hips
that they the birds have already been
there
and they've stripped open the the
rosehips but as you see the large
numbers of seeds the birds will eat but
humans can't eat them they're covered in
a very fine hairs which make them in
digestible and acquaintance irritant as
well and I remember as kids what we used
to do was used to split open these rose
hips but the seeds down people's backs
and use it as an itching powder it was a
great fun but very annoying to the
person who got caught with the seeds but
down the back of their neck
I'm not what I'm suggesting is people
should you should do it now but it was
great fun when we were kids once the
poems come up to the boil and leave it
to simmer for about five minutes then
need to strain it through the jelly dog
to take about an hour to strain it and
at that point put the pulp back in the
pan another three liters of water bring
through it up to the boil simmer for
five minutes and then repeat the process
of straining it through the jelly bag
the pulp has been straining for 24 hours
now so the liquid is now ready to be
measured then back into the pan and then
need to add 650 grams of sugar for every
liter of liquid and then heat it up
stirring it to make sure the sugar is
dissolved
as it's coming up to the board you may
find that this sort of scummy layer
forms all you need to do is spoon that
off and then let the liquid boil for
about three minutes
well here's a couple of the 14 bottles
that were just made of rosehip syrup now
what can it be used for well you could
clink it neat as I just if you're
wanting something sweet spoonful of it
would go down very well or you can
drizzle it onto cakes put it onto
pancakes
maybe even mix it into rice pudding but
it's going to be really naughty put a
shot of gin or vodka into a glass some
of the syrup onto it couple of ice cubes
and enjoy the drink